MAGIC JUICE COMPANY POLICY MANUAL

TITLE:
Receiving Plan and Receiving Facilities

DEPARTMENT:
Production

POLICY NUMBER:
MFJ 011

CROSS REFERENCE:
N/A

PREPARED BY:
Quality Controller

APPROVED BY:
General Manager

DATE:
14 November 2017

REVISION:
00


POLICY

Receiving area design and layout, to cater for all raw materials used in production.


PURPOSE

To ensure receiving area and receiving procedures are in accordance with the law, and are being practiced accordingly.

To ensure that the flow of receiving is done with minimal chance of contamination.


PROCEDURES

1. Receiving area should be clean at all given times and is required to be maintained as per the hygiene principles.

2. Receiving area should be well lighted to avoid any pest infestation and to facilitate product inspection.

3. The receiving area should be protected from all weather.

4. Product should only be received in the designated area provided. Do not receive any food items in any other area other than the designated area.

5. Purchasing and receiving personnel shall schedule deliveries to arrive at operational hours, preferably at 0800 to 1700 hours. Personnel shall post the delivery schedule, including the names of supplier, days and times of deliveries.

6. Weighing scales shall be cleaned and disinfected before and after every use and shall be serviced.

7. Transportation trolleys must be provided at the receiving area to transport the received items inside the appropriate store.

8. Suppliers containers are not allowed to be in the food operation area. Transfer all the food items into the company containers and then transport/store them into the required stores.

9. Food containers must be separate for high and low risk items. It is preferable to have coded food containers to reduce risk of contamination. Separate production and public areas.

10. Any items which are rejected from the supplier should be returned immediately. If you are not able to do this, the items should be labelled. Do not touch, return to supplier.

11. All empty packing materials must be taken to garbage room within the shortest time possible.

12. Receiving personnel must record all items received in the Receiving Department records.

13. All of the above documents must be kept on file and shall be signed off by the Production Manager.